doc/cephfs/fs-volumes.rst, before:

.. _fs-volumes-and-subvolumes:

FS volumes and subvolumes
=========================

A  single source of truth for CephFS exports is implemented in the volumes
module of the :term:`Ceph Manager` daemon (ceph-mgr). The OpenStack shared
file system service (manila_), Ceph Container Storage Interface (CSI_),
storage administrators among others can use the common CLI provided by the
ceph-mgr volumes module to manage the CephFS exports.

The ceph-mgr volumes module implements the following file system export
abstactions:

* FS volumes, an abstraction for CephFS file systems

* FS subvolumes, an abstraction for independent CephFS directory trees

* FS subvolume groups, an abstraction for a directory level higher than FS
  subvolumes to effect policies (e.g., :doc:`/cephfs/file-layouts`) across a
  set of subvolumes

Some possible use-cases for the export abstractions:

* FS subvolumes used as manila shares or CSI volumes

* FS subvolume groups used as manila share groups

Requirements
------------

* Nautilus (14.2.x) or a later version of Ceph

* Cephx client user (see :doc:`/rados/operations/user-management`) with
  the following minimum capabilities::

    mon 'allow r'
    mgr 'allow rw'


FS Volumes
----------

Create a volume using::

    $ ceph fs volume create <vol_name>

This creates a CephFS file system and its data and metadata pools. It also tries
to create MDSes for the filesystem using the enabled ceph-mgr orchestrator
module  (see :doc:`/mgr/orchestrator_cli`) , e.g., rook.

Remove a volume using::

    $ ceph fs volume rm <vol_name> [--yes-i-really-mean-it]

This removes a file system and its data and metadata pools. It also tries to
remove MDSes using the enabled ceph-mgr orchestrator module.

List volumes using::

    $ ceph fs volume ls

FS Subvolume groups
-------------------

Create a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup create <vol_name> <group_name> [--mode <octal_mode> --pool_layout <data_pool_name>]

The command succeeds even if the subvolume group already exists.

When creating a subvolume group you can specify its data pool layout (see
:doc:`/cephfs/file-layouts`), and file mode in octal numerals. By default, the
subvolume group is created with an octal file mode '755', and data pool layout
of its parent directory.


Remove a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup rm <vol_name> <group_name> [--force]

The removal of a subvolume group fails if it is not empty, e.g., has subvolumes
or snapshots, or is non-existent. Using the '--force' flag allows the command
to succeed even if the subvolume group is non-existent.


Fetch the absolute path of a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup getpath <vol_name> <group_name>

List subvolume groups using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup ls <vol_name>

Create a snapshot (see :doc:`/cephfs/experimental-features`) of a
subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup snapshot create <vol_name> <group_name> <snap_name>

This implicitly snapshots all the subvolumes under the subvolume group.

Remove a snapshot of a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup snapshot rm <vol_name> <group_name> <snap_name> [--force]

Using the '--force' flag allows the command to succeed that would otherwise
fail if the snapshot did not exist.

List snapshots of a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup snapshot ls <vol_name> <group_name>


FS Subvolumes
-------------

Create a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume create <vol_name> <subvol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name> --mode <octal_mode> --pool_layout <data_pool_name> --size <size_in_bytes>]


The command succeeds even if the subvolume already exists.

When creating a subvolume you can specify its subvolume group, data pool layout,
file mode in octal numerals, and size in bytes. The size of the subvolume is
specified by setting a quota on it (see :doc:`/cephfs/quota`). By default a
subvolume is created within the default subvolume group, and with an octal file
mode '755', data pool layout of its parent directory and no size limit.


Remove a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume rm <vol_name> <subvol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name> --force]


The command removes the subvolume and its contents. It does this in two steps.
First, it move the subvolume to a trash folder, and then asynchronously purges
its contents.

The removal of a subvolume fails if it has snapshots, or is non-existent.
Using the '--force' flag allows the command to succeed even if the subvolume is
non-existent.

Resize a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume resize <vol_name> <subvol_name> <new_size> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>] [--no_shrink]

The command resizes the subvolume quota using the size specified by 'new_size'.
'--no_shrink' flag prevents the subvolume to shrink below the current used size of the subvolume.

Fetch the absolute path of a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume getpath <vol_name> <subvol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>]

List subvolumes using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume ls <vol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>]

Create a snapshot of a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume snapshot create <vol_name> <subvol_name> <snap_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>]


Remove a snapshot of a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume snapshot rm <vol_name> <subvol_name> <snap_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name> --force]

Using the '--force' flag allows the command to succeed that would otherwise
fail if the snapshot did not exist.

List snapshots of a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume snapshot ls <vol_name> <subvol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>]

.. _manila: https://github.com/openstack/manila
.. _CSI: https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi

Commit message:

doc: update inf/infinite option for subvolume resize
Fixes: https://tracker.ceph.com/issues/42479
Signed-off-by: Jos Collin <jcollin@redhat.com>

doc/cephfs/fs-volumes.rst, after:

.. _fs-volumes-and-subvolumes:

FS volumes and subvolumes
=========================

A  single source of truth for CephFS exports is implemented in the volumes
module of the :term:`Ceph Manager` daemon (ceph-mgr). The OpenStack shared
file system service (manila_), Ceph Container Storage Interface (CSI_),
storage administrators among others can use the common CLI provided by the
ceph-mgr volumes module to manage the CephFS exports.

The ceph-mgr volumes module implements the following file system export
abstactions:

* FS volumes, an abstraction for CephFS file systems

* FS subvolumes, an abstraction for independent CephFS directory trees

* FS subvolume groups, an abstraction for a directory level higher than FS
  subvolumes to effect policies (e.g., :doc:`/cephfs/file-layouts`) across a
  set of subvolumes

Some possible use-cases for the export abstractions:

* FS subvolumes used as manila shares or CSI volumes

* FS subvolume groups used as manila share groups

Requirements
------------

* Nautilus (14.2.x) or a later version of Ceph

* Cephx client user (see :doc:`/rados/operations/user-management`) with
  the following minimum capabilities::

    mon 'allow r'
    mgr 'allow rw'


FS Volumes
----------

Create a volume using::

    $ ceph fs volume create <vol_name>

This creates a CephFS file system and its data and metadata pools. It also tries
to create MDSes for the filesystem using the enabled ceph-mgr orchestrator
module  (see :doc:`/mgr/orchestrator_cli`) , e.g., rook.

Remove a volume using::

    $ ceph fs volume rm <vol_name> [--yes-i-really-mean-it]

This removes a file system and its data and metadata pools. It also tries to
remove MDSes using the enabled ceph-mgr orchestrator module.

List volumes using::

    $ ceph fs volume ls

FS Subvolume groups
-------------------

Create a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup create <vol_name> <group_name> [--mode <octal_mode> --pool_layout <data_pool_name>]

The command succeeds even if the subvolume group already exists.

When creating a subvolume group you can specify its data pool layout (see
:doc:`/cephfs/file-layouts`), and file mode in octal numerals. By default, the
subvolume group is created with an octal file mode '755', and data pool layout
of its parent directory.


Remove a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup rm <vol_name> <group_name> [--force]

The removal of a subvolume group fails if it is not empty, e.g., has subvolumes
or snapshots, or is non-existent. Using the '--force' flag allows the command
to succeed even if the subvolume group is non-existent.


Fetch the absolute path of a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup getpath <vol_name> <group_name>

List subvolume groups using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup ls <vol_name>

Create a snapshot (see :doc:`/cephfs/experimental-features`) of a
subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup snapshot create <vol_name> <group_name> <snap_name>

This implicitly snapshots all the subvolumes under the subvolume group.

Remove a snapshot of a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup snapshot rm <vol_name> <group_name> <snap_name> [--force]

Using the '--force' flag allows the command to succeed that would otherwise
fail if the snapshot did not exist.

List snapshots of a subvolume group using::

    $ ceph fs subvolumegroup snapshot ls <vol_name> <group_name>


FS Subvolumes
-------------

Create a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume create <vol_name> <subvol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name> --mode <octal_mode> --pool_layout <data_pool_name> --size <size_in_bytes>]


The command succeeds even if the subvolume already exists.

When creating a subvolume you can specify its subvolume group, data pool layout,
file mode in octal numerals, and size in bytes. The size of the subvolume is
specified by setting a quota on it (see :doc:`/cephfs/quota`). By default a
subvolume is created within the default subvolume group, and with an octal file
mode '755', data pool layout of its parent directory and no size limit.


Remove a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume rm <vol_name> <subvol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name> --force]


The command removes the subvolume and its contents. It does this in two steps.
First, it move the subvolume to a trash folder, and then asynchronously purges
its contents.

The removal of a subvolume fails if it has snapshots, or is non-existent.
Using the '--force' flag allows the command to succeed even if the subvolume is
non-existent.

Resize a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume resize <vol_name> <subvol_name> <new_size> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>] [--no_shrink]

The command resizes the subvolume quota using the size specified by 'new_size'.
'--no_shrink' flag prevents the subvolume to shrink below the current used size of the subvolume.

The subvolume can be resized to an infinite size by passing 'inf' or 'infinite' as the new_size.

Fetch the absolute path of a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume getpath <vol_name> <subvol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>]

List subvolumes using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume ls <vol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>]

Create a snapshot of a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume snapshot create <vol_name> <subvol_name> <snap_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>]


Remove a snapshot of a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume snapshot rm <vol_name> <subvol_name> <snap_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name> --force]

Using the '--force' flag allows the command to succeed that would otherwise
fail if the snapshot did not exist.

List snapshots of a subvolume using::

    $ ceph fs subvolume snapshot ls <vol_name> <subvol_name> [--group_name <subvol_group_name>]

.. _manila: https://github.com/openstack/manila
.. _CSI: https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi
